Since our return to Earth after defeating Zenoheld
a whole lot has happened.
The most exciting thing is that Bakugan Interspace finally
went online globally, allowing kids from all over the world
to show their battling skills in a safe and friendly
environment.
Unfortunately, it seems like not everyone
wants this virtual realm to remain happy and free.
A mysterious evil force from another world
is infiltrated Bakugan Interspace
and is trying to take over.
OK, buddy, let's do this.
All right, Bakugan, brawl.
THEME SONG: What are you going to do?
The odds are stacked against you.
Back against the wall, got to give it your all.
This is the final stand.
The power's in your hand.
Two worlds collide on the inside.
You got to fight for what's right
before it's gone, gone, gone.
This is Bakugan.
Nice throw.
Your skills are definitely impressive, Princess Fabia.
You know, you still haven't told me if you believe me yet.
I wouldn't have addressed you as Princess if I didn't.
I'm afraid the Brawlers have made a big mistake, Fabia.
The Bakugan Battle Brawlers in Exposed.
Hey, Marucho, we need to talk about my next battle.
I want to use that new arena you just built.
Maruch isn't here right now.
He's gone off with Ren to work on something.
Really?
Again?
Oh, man, it's like Marucho's never around.
Has the data from E 24 finished compiling yet?
Yes, it's done.
How about the 3D spatial variation figures?
I had to run a defrag program on that server first.
When it's done, I'll get started on those numbers.
DAN: Hey, Marucho, you there, man?
Yes, Dan.
So, listen--
Sorry, can't talk.
Huh?
I don't understand why we can't extract the data.
Malfunction incidence rate of the transportation cycles
appear normal.
What if we tried using the Master Alive program.
Wow, I never thought of that, but that's a great idea, Ren.
Now, then--
On my mark.
1, 2, 3.
It worked.
The expansion for the new battle arena is done.
You did it, Marucho.
You mean, we did it, Ren.
DAN: Wow, looks like Ren and Marucho
finished the new battle arena.
Cool.
That should really help shorten the mega long waiting
lists for battlers looking to get their brawl on.
Know what I mean?
I must admit, Marucho and Ren make a good team.
Yeah, those two dudes do some pretty good work.
I have to be honest with myself, sometimes
they're technobabble gives me a headache.
I know what you mean.
It's always data this and program that.
It's kind of like how you two always talk about brawling.
Yeah, exactly.
That's right.
Huh?
Say what?
Oh, look at that, time for my nap.
Here you go.
Let's take a break, Ren.
Sure.
Thanks, Marucho.
I should be thanking you.
Why?
Well, without your help, I would
have never been able to develop Bakugan
Interspace this far by myself.
Every battler in the system owes a debt of thanks to you.
Well, I hope you realize that, and I
want you to never forget it.
I do, and I just want you to know
how much I appreciate you letting
me be a part of all of this.
You know, I had an amazing dream last night.
Tell me.
It took place in the future.
I saw children here on Earth battling
inside Bakugan Interspace with kids
from your homeland of Gundalia.
Wouldn't that be so incredibly awesome, Ren?
Wouldn't it?
I just get so excited thinking about it.
It should be a goal that we strive for.
Yes.
It sounds wonderful.
It really does.
We can't forget the war.
Until we put an end to that, the dream will never come true.
We have to stop the Neathian's campaign
of terror and return peace to Gundalia as soon as possible.
You're right.
Once we accomplish that, peace will definitely follow.
[alarm]
Is that?
Another Neathian agent, yes.
There's no one here, dude.
Maybe all the alarms scared them off.
This is where the signal came from, isn't it?
Yes.
Marucho, you testing the alarm system?
No, there's been a breach.
Then the intruders must be hiding somewhere.
Try looking under your nose.
Hey, who are you?
An ancient Neathian proverb says,
foolish is the soldier who knows not the face of his enemy.
For all of his weapons will prove useless under the weight
of his ignorance.
We've been waiting for you, children.
Your agents from Neathia, aren't you?
My name is Jesse Glenn.
It's a pleasure to meet you.
And this is my partner Plitheon.
I believe that's my cue.
What?
Are you kidding me?
Save the formalities, pal, we're not interested.
You want to battle, then come on.
Yeah.
Hey, Dan, hold on a second.
You don't know anything about this guy.
Don't worry, he'll be fine.
Oh, Dan the Man won't even break a sweat, dude.
Yeah, count on it.
Can you feel it?
The winds of war are blowing.
Enough with the jibber-jabber, get--
Wait!
It's you.
Fabia?
What the?
He's lying to you.
He isn't from Neathia.
He's an imposter, and now he must pay for his crimes.
What?
Both of us will be fighting you this battle.
Prepare for the Princess's wrath.
Very well.
This reminds me of a poem I read.
It was called Requiem for the Fallen Warrior.
And it doesn't have a happy ending.
Hold on a sec.
What do you think you're doing?
This is my battle to fight, not yours.
Stand back, Dan.
This is Fabia's battle to fight.
She is the true Neathian.
But, Shun.
Dude, what are you talking about?
Where the heck have you been?
Let's do this, Aranaut.
Bakugan brawl.
Battle is like music to my ears, Plitheon.
ANNOUNCER: Bakugan battle between Fabia Sheen and Jesse
Glenn will now commence.
I don't understand.
If he's an imposter, the where's he from?
And why should we believe her anyway?
Oh, dude, I'm totally confused.
Shun, what in the world is going on?
Maybe you should ask your friend over there.
What do you mean?
How should I know?
I have no idea either, guys.
ANNOUNCER: Bakugan field, open.
Gate card set.
Here we go.
Bakugan, brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Go, Haos Aranaut.
I will battle till the end for you, Princess.
For whom will the bell toll when this is over, Madam?
I predict it will be you.
Bakugan, brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Come, Ventus Plitheon.
I was ready to stomp some brawlers,
but you two will do just fine.
Here we go.
Those guys are wicked fast.
No kidding.
I can barely keep up.
Ability activate, light eater.
Great, my favorite.
And just to keep it interesting, how about a bit of this?
Come on, get up Aranaut.
Ability activate.
Vector fist.
Good choice, Princess.
Thank you.
Let's see how you like this.
Oh, yeah.
Hard core.
Now stay down.
We're not ready to drop the final curtain,
not when there's so much wonderful drama
left to play out.
Ready for Vilantor Gear.
Battle gear, boot.
Now then, battle gear ability activate.
Vilantor Gear Cyclotron.
That was just a small taste.
Aranaut, Gate card open.
Up.
Haos saber.
What the?
It's no use.
With the Vilantor Gear Cyclotron activated
your Gate card is destroyed.
Combat's a delicate ballet, wouldn't you say?
Fabia lifeforce, 10%.
Aranaut, no.
Combat can also be brutal.
She just got royally stomped.
He really turned it around.
Why do you even care?
They're both our enemies.
Let them destroy each other.
Ah, I guess you're right.
And here we are at the final act.
Gate card, set.
I believe this calls for a grand crescendo, don't you?
Bakugan, brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Rise again, Ventus Plitheon.
Your fancy clothes and flowery vocabulary
can't disguise the fact that you're a monster.
Bakugan, brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Stay strong, Haos Aranaut.
I will avenge my previous defeat.
I swear it.
I'm ready whenever you are, weakling.
Oh, you think you can beat me that easily?
Ability activate.
Mirage Up.
Just what I was thinking.
I must admit there is a beauty in the way
she carries herself on the field of battle that I admire.
Can we get on with this, please?
I suppose you're right, Plitheon.
Even beauty will wilt in the face of true power.
Ability activate.
Metal Verde.
Take a good look.
I'm the one who's going to tear you apart.
I don't think Aranaut's strong enough to do this.
Check it out.
Plitheon has turned part of his body into a metal shell
and increased his defensive ability.
Then she needs to use--
Battle gear.
Here we go.
Ready, Battle Crusher.
Come on, Aranaut, win this.
Battle gear boost.
Battle gear ability activate.
Battle Crusher Duke.
OK, target is locked.
Engage.
Whoa, that's got to hurt.
Is he down?
Not sure.
No, not even close.
That attacked barely phased him.
I don't understand it.
Now I'm really angry.
Battle gear, boost.
Battle gear ability activate.
Vilantor Cyclotron.
Time for you to disappear.
Stop fighting and accept your defeat.
Hold on, Aranaut.
Battle Crusher Duke weakens all the opponent's attacks by half.
Whoa, talk about turning the tables.
Come on, Aranaut, you can still win this.
But I thought we agreed we weren't supposed to be cheering
for either one of these guys?
Ready for the final attack, Aranaut.
Yeah.
Game over, Jesse.
Are you sure?
What?
Listen carefully, Fabia.
It's the sound of your own defeat sneaking up on you.
[high pitched humming]
[gasp]
What is happening?
Watch your step.
What the?
What is wrong with Aranaut?
It looks like there's a bug in the software
that's caused the arena's virtual environment
to become unstable.
A bug?
But, how?
I just don't know, Marucho.
I'll have to run a diagnostic after the battle.
Aranaut!
Princess.
Gate card, open.
Gear Barricade.
What is happening?
I'm sorry, Aranaut.
I don't know.
The command card Gear Barricade
shuts down the opponents battle gear.
And then, it connects with Plitheon's Vilantor Gear
and it activates the level two battle gear ability.
I feel incredible.
This is Vilantor Gear Nirvana.
Open yourself to the power, Plitheon.
Let it flow through you, and when you're ready, release.
Goodbye, Aranaut.
Aranaut, no!
Princess, I'm sorry.
Oh, Aranaut.
ANNOUNCER: Battle over, winner Jesse Glenn.
[crying]
You creep.
Think you're tough, battle me next.
Easy, Dan, maybe we should quit for today.
Why should I?
Yes, Ren, why should he?
Is he disrupting your plans?
What do you mean plans?
Think about it.
That tear in the environment that Aranaut stepped into, what
are the odds of something like that happening randomly,
Marucho?
Huh?
It's not very likely.
But--
So then, it wouldn't be unreasonable to think that it
was an act of sabotage committed by someone who originally
wanted Dan and Drago to lose.
Wha-- a trap set for us?
But who would do that?
The person responsible would have
to be extremely knowledgeable with the Bakugan Interspace,
someone like the administrator.
That's just crazy.
Why would I do that?
Because you're a lying, conniving Gundalian.
Shun has told me everything that Ren
has said to you about the war between our planets,
and it's all a pack of lies.
What?
I know he told you that Neathia invaded Gundalia,
but the real truth is Gundalia is the one who invaded.
Ren is really the enemy.
Are you serious?
Total bummer.
What?
Huh?
What are you talking about, Shun?
Tell him it isn't true, OK, Ren?
Of course, it isn't true.
She's the one who's lying.
My, my, my, there's more drama on this stage
than even I can handle.
Don't try and talk your way out of this, Neathian.
We will deal with you yet.
Nice try, but he's a Gundalian just like you, Ren.
Isn't he now?
A spy you planted.
I don't believe this.
I believe that's my cue.
I bid you all a fond farewell.
Is he?
Don't you walk away from me.
Come back and fight, Neathian.
I do apologize, but there will be no encore performance today.
Coward.
Time to give it up, Ren.
I don't have to take this.
Ren!
Wait.
See, he ran away.
What further proof do you need that he's guilty of all
that Fabia says he is?
I don't believe you.
But Ren's my--
Marucho?
Ren is my friend, OK, you guys?
He would never do anything to hurt us or Bakugan Interspace.
You got it?
So knock it off.
Marucho.
You don't know what you're talking about, Shun.
Ren is a good guy, OK?
I don't want to hear another bad word about him from any one.
Wait, Maruch.
Oh, Marucho.
After being confronted by Shun and Fabia,
Ren took off running before he could explain himself.
I searched high and low, but couldn't find him anywhere.
I know Shun is convinced that the Gundalian's are evil,
but I just can't believe that my new best
friend could be capable of such horrible things.
Where is he hiding?
If only he'd come out and face me.
What if Shun is right and I have it all wrong?
You'll have to tune in to find out the real truth.
Bakugan, brawl.
You won't believe it.
[theme music]